The theme for this discussion is Jehovah's Hand is awe-inspiring.
The human hand is an amazing creation.
It enables us to apply the power of our arm in very dexterous and versatile ways.
We can swing a sledgehammer.
We can thread a tiny sewing needle.
The human hand is far superior to any animal's hand.
In advantage, only humans have an opposing thumb that can easily touch our four other fingers.
To illustrate the human hand superiority, imagine an ape whose hand you see here trying
to take a pin and precisely sign his name, or trying to throw a curveball with a baseball.
But as amazing as the human hand is, Jehovah's Hand is far more amazing.
In fact, it is awe-inspiring.
But what is Jehovah's Hand?
Well, here's one definition.
Jehovah's Hand is his ability to apply the great power of his Holy Spirit in various ways.
In fact, let's discuss four examples of Jehovah using his awe-inspiring hand to apply
the great power of his Holy Spirit.
And then, after we discuss each one, we'll comment just briefly on how we can work in harmony
with this specific use of Jehovah's Hand.
Now, let's go to Proverbs 21.
Today's scripture text, let's read it again.
Proverbs 21-1, a king's heart is like streams of water in Jehovah's Hand.
He directs it wherever he pleases.
Now, what is this telling as well?
In order to accomplish his will, Jehovah can maneuver the heart of any government official
to do something or not do something.
Now, here's one Bible example.
Persian King Artisert Z's granted all of Ezra's requests.
Amazingly, he did this.
About going to Jerusalem and advancing pure worship.
Well, what motivated the king's heart to do this?
Ezra knew whether credit belonged.
At Ezra 727, he said,
May Jehovah be praised,
who put it into the heart of the king
to beautify the house of Jehovah in Jerusalem.
Now, that's just one Bible example of many that could be discussed.
But now, our question, how can we work in harmony with this use of Jehovah's Hand?
Well, for one thing, we can pray, if it be Jehovah's will,
that he maneuver the hearts of government officials to make decisions
that will benefit Jehovah's people.
We can also pray for Jehovah to move the hearts of officials
to treat our imprisoned brothers kindly.
And that's in harmony with Hebrews 13.3,
which beautiful scripture, keep in mind those in prison
as though you were imprisoned with them.
Now, isn't that interesting?
Keep in mind those in prison as though you were imprisoned with them.
Now, let's go to Isaiah 41,
and we'll get our second example of how Jehovah can use his hand.
Isaiah 41, verse 10, the B part, Jehovah says,
I will really hold onto you with my right hand of righteousness.
Then look at verse 13, for I, Jehovah your God,
am grasping your right hand.
The one saying to you, do not be afraid, I will help you.
Now, interestingly, this scripture is not talking about Jehovah
taking his right hand and grabbing our left hand
as would be true in walking side by side.
But rather, Jehovah takes his right hand and grabs our right hand
as would be true of Jehovah pulling us up and out of a pit.
So what do we learn from this?
That Jehovah can rescue us from any situation,
no matter how hopeless, how desperate it might seem.
But now, a question, how can we work in harmony
with this specific use of Jehovah's hand?
Well, for one thing, we can supplicate Jehovah
to rescue us in time of test trial, temptation.
And then we can avail ourselves of the help that comes our way
in effect reaching out with our right hand
and grasping Jehovah's right hand.
But now, let's go to Psalm 145, our third example.
Psalm 145, verse number 16 of Jehovah,
it says, you open your hand
and satisfy the desire of every living thing.
Now, what is this telling us?
Well, Jehovah can use his hand to express tremendous generosity.
It's true, this scripture will be completely fulfilled
in the new world, but even now,
Jehovah freely uses his hand to express generosity.
He is the most magnanimous giver in the universe.
Nothing stingy or tightfisted about Jehovah.
He gives emotionally, he gives materially,
especially spiritually.
The ground we walk on, the food we eat,
the air we breathe, all come from Jehovah.
That makes me think of the atheist who arrogantly said,
I don't need God, I don't need anybody, I don't need anything.
And then he took a deep breath, how short-sighted indeed.
But now our question is, how can we work in harmony
with this use of Jehovah's hand?
Well, by being generous toward others,
being willing to give unstentingly
of our time, energy, resources.
And think about this, if we are close-fisted with others,
not only are we not imitating our generous God,
as beloved children, but Jehovah can't put anything
in our hand.
On the other hand, if we're open-handed,
with others, now Jehovah can put something in our hand.
Well, let's identify one more way Jehovah uses his hand.
Let's go to Exodus chapter 15, please.
And verse six, the B part.
Your right hand, O Jehovah, can shatter an enemy.
What do we learn?
He reminds us of how many times in the past,
Jehovah has used his hand to smash
to irreparable pieces his enemies.
And it assures us he will do so
in an even more awe-inspiring way in the near future
during the great tribulation.
Jehovah will use his hand to maneuver many of the wicked,
to actually use their physical hands to slaughter each other.
And then he will use his hand to wheel the forces of nature,
to use the immortal Christ, the immortal 144,000,
the mighty angels, he will use them to sweep away,
sweep out of existence the rest of the wicked,
along with this entire wicked system.
How can we work in harmony with this use of Jehovah's hand?
Well, one way, very important, we can work hard
to help people take a stand with Jehovah, learn the truth,
so they don't have to be removed by Jehovah's Almighty hand.
And this brings great delight to Jehovah when we do this,
because Jehovah takes no delight
and even the death of the wicked.
But what he takes delight in is that someone wicked
turns back from his way and keeps living.
Well, we have now discussed four ways
Jehovah can use his awe-inspiring hand,
maneuver government officials, according to his will,
rescue his people, give generously, shatter his enemies.
Now the Bible does describe many other ways
Jehovah uses his hand.
So why not make identifying some of these other ways
a future study project?
I'll give you a little bit of homework,
but may all of us be determined to use our physical
and figurative hand to always work in harmony
with Jehovah's awe-inspiring hand.